This repository is dedicated to highlighting developments within the Quantum Information Science (QIS) Initiative at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL). It also provides some links, software, and data pertinent to the projects as well. 



**Challenge:** Enabling new quantum computing simulations in chemistry requires tight integration of computational chemistry infrastructure with novel quantum algorithms for ground- and excited-state simulations.
**Approach and Results:** Our team has developed NWChem-QDK (Quantum Development Kit (QDK) developed and maintained by Microsoft Research group) interface to perform Quantum Phase Estimator (QPE) simulations for chemical processes (see Fig.3). NWChem provides a reach infrastructure for the characterization of second quantized forms of electronic Hamiltonians and the initial characterization of ground- and excited-state wavefunction obtained with high-accuracy coupled-cluster calculations on classical systems. QDK offers a variety of quantum simulation algorithms ranging from Trotter-Suzuki expansion to various qubitization approaches. Quantum simulations using NWChem and QDK can also be performed employing the web interface EMSL Arrows Quantum Editor https://arrows.emsl.pnnl.gov/api/qsharp_chem .  
**Significance and Impact:** Using the NWChem-QDK interface, we demonstrated the efficiency of the QPE approach in describing strongly correlated ground and excited states of molecular systems. The QPE algorithm, with proper initial estimates of the electronic wave functions, was able to describe potential energy surfaces for the ground state and several low-lying excited states, which also involved challenging doubly excited states.  Using the H10 benchmark system in the STO-3G basis set, we demonstrated the advantages of using QPE in achieving highly accurate energy estimates in the strongly correlated regime.
